A restaurant, but mostly a beer joint.
Youngbloods?
You know where you turn off to go to Kruger's?
And it still was there when we were there.
Not Youngbloods?
I don't believe that's right.
And what did you purchase there?
What's that?
What did you buy there?
Mostly beer.
We'd eat there, too.
We'd got hamburgers or hot dogs.
Now, how much beer did you veterans consume?
Did you consume?
That might be, I'd have to take Fifth Amendment on that.
Oh, not very much.
It's just a relaxation.
And tell war stories and all kinds of things.
We usually there were four or five of us that were kind of friends.
Was Mr. Hardlicker's still?
Hardlicker's, yeah, was there, yeah.
Was Whiskey Bridge yet a reality, driving due west?
That was a reality.
I never did go over there, but yes, a lot of people did.
The clothing was short.
Do you remember when civilian goods became more available?
Civilian goods, it started coming in to some sense of, you could obtain it, used somewhere about mid-'46, a little bit.
You couldn't buy, you didn't have much selection, but you could buy some kind of a shirt and a pair of slacks, you know, and buy mid-46.
And you had saved some money from the war, I presume, and then the GI Bill, but you paid your way, you and the GI Bill paid your way through entirely?
Mom and Dad didn't?
My mother and father couldn't have.
They didn't have anything.
They were doing well.
I had a sister that's still at home, and they were doing well to keep the fires burning there.
They didn't have any money.
In fact, I helped them a little bit.
I had a few hundred dollars that I'd saved while I was in the Southwest Pacific.
I helped them, my father, to make a down payment on his farm.
You did your studying, that night studying, in your room or in the library or where?
A little of both, but mostly in our rooms.
See, Willie Trahan and I were both veterinary students in the same class.
And I think maybe we helped each other.
We both finished in the top 10%, and I'm sure we helped each other.
What did you wear to class?
How did you dress?
How did I dress?
Whatever I could find to cover my neck in this.
Do you wear sneakers?
No, we didn't wear sneakers much.
Blue jeans?
No, we didn't wear blue jeans.
We wore khakis and a pair of low-cut shoes.
A simple shirt.
We didn't, of course, dress up, but we stayed clean and presentable.
Were you and your fellow veterinary students ever involved in any student pranks or jokes or good bull?
No, I remember going in the night of the student march on Gilchrist's house.
I remember going to that.
Please describe that as fully as you can.
What was that?
Who was there?
What happened?
Oh, God, I haven't thought about it in 50 years.
Well, there was a lot of unrest.
I don't know where all the unrest was coming from.
I think a lot of it was due to the fact that President Gilchrist was a poor communicator, very poor communicator.
He didn't, as far as I know, communicate much through the battalion or that sort of thing.
Didn't tell us why situations weren't like they were.
And although none of it really pertained to me,
I think it did to a lot of the married students because their housing was terrible, inadequate in most respects.
And my best recollection is it should never have happened if the president would have helped.
But he, I don't know why, he didn't understand what to do with those veteran students.
And this march,
went over to the president's house.
Is it, it's after supper?
It was late in the afternoon or after, I imagine it was after supper.
And is the band there?
Are there noise makers?
There were just a lot of people that were kind of angry, you know, and they were, they were using pretty strong language and, you know, asking Gibb, get out here and tell us, meet with us.
And I don't, maybe he finally did.
Did some student try to speak for all the other students?
Yeah.
Most of us didn't know what to say.
I wasn't unhappy.
I didn't want to see what happened.
What was the, what occurred?
What was the end of the, what was the result of the meeting?
The president, whoever was his assistants and so forth, made some adjustments, but they're mainly told the
the students, why they didn't have everything they needed, why things were tough.
Of course I don't know how to explain it because I really didn't understand it.
I'm sure there must have been someone who understood that
Here is a small campus, and it was a small campus at that time, and here you've got 10,000 students where you never had but 5,000 before, and you have no place to house them.
But I can't really tell you why it was such a mess.
It was a mess.
Now, is this the meeting where some of the Corps seniors took off their brass and put it in the helmet liner and sent it up there?
I expect it was.
It seemed like I remember some talk of that.
Now, the veterans didn't do anything like that.
They just, of course, most of them wanted to just somehow or other survive to get the hell out of this place.
That's what the usual answer you got.
But I don't know why the Corps were so unhappy.
I expect they were tired of the veterans.
They were being pushed aside and crowded.
I don't know.
Where were the married veteran students living?
They lived, well, of course, back around where the old project houses were, back south.
And then there were some of them on the northeast side later on.
So they moved in everything they could, some old army barracks.
My brother, my sister and brother-in-law were there a year or so later, and they were living in, I think, what had been a mobile home kind of thing.
And what did those wives do?
They couldn't take classes.
Did they work?
Tried to work if they could find jobs, but that was the problem.
And you have to remember, and I tell this story so much that Joy will probably leave because she won't want to hear it, but you remember the dorm that was across from Cebiza that had been built probably in the 30s and had a bath, and the bath was accessible from a
a living room or a bedroom on one side or the other.
Remember, most all of the dorms were a common type where they had one bathroom and showers and so forth.
There were no women.
And so they weren't satisfactory for married couples at all.
But in this dorm that I'm speaking of, it was possible for them to
put it in use in the fall of 45 and in the spring of 46.
And one of the things that's kind of fun to remember about A&M then was that you never saw a woman.
You didn't know really for sure what a woman looked like.
But the only ones I ever saw had a great big swelling.
This was, you know, just after the war ended.
And everybody was starting a family.
So we didn't see any women that weren't pregnant.
I didn't know what one looked like for about a year.
Did you have any social life that first year?
Not much.
No time for it anyway.
No, first year virtually nothing.
A little bit.
Occasionally, you know, they'd have dances at Sibisa.
And they would...
they would invite women out of Fort Worth, Dallas, and Houston, and they'd come down on buses, or some of them that were more affluent would have their own cars.
And so they would, a lot of the male students would have some access either to women in those cities or to TSCW, what it was called, the women's school in Denton.
Well, of course, most of us didn't have any access to any of those, didn't have any addresses, telephone numbers or anything.
But I recall one time that one of the older men that was in my class died a good many years ago, G.D.
McLean.
And G.D.
was one of those wealthy guys, and his wife was a very positive socialite in
in Dallas, and I think she was a graduate of SMU, and so she had gotten another young woman to come with her down.
GD I don't think was married at that time, he did later.
So this might have been the fall of 45, and we had one of the big bands, famous bands,
He came to me and wanted to know if I would be the host for this young woman that was coming down.
I tried to chicken out of that because I couldn't dance.
I didn't have any of the social graces that I thought somebody out of SMU would have.
And he wouldn't let me out of it.
And I recall that was kind of a miserable weekend for me.
And I'm sure that that young woman thought I was the biggest hick it ever was.
But that's the kind of example.
Do you recall any example of where the young undergraduates who had not gone away to the war, any examples of where they verbally put you old guys down
Did they seem to have respect and gratitude for what you all had done during the role you played in the war?
I think so, as much as you would expect a youngster, 18, 19-year-old to have.
There was never any problem.
In our class we had good relations.
Some of the older men would tease those youngsters.
In a good-natured way, I don't recall any problem at all.
I find with today's undergraduates that they are astonished when I tell them that none of us who lived during World War II ever had any doubt as to who was gonna win the war.
And they are surprised.
You mean there wasn't great worry about the... And I said, no, everybody knew who was gonna win.
It was just how long it would take.
All right, when did you go, you got here in September, when did you go home the first time?
Back to Stephenville?
About Thanksgiving, I guess.
And you didn't have a car, or did you keep that?
I had, no, I didn't have a car at that time.
All right, so you didn't?
No, what happened, it would be, like, I grew up in Stephenville, and of course there were, it was kind of an Aggie town to be that far away.
There were,
A lot of, most of the kids were an engineer in their agriculture.
And so there were, there was nearly always somebody going home for holidays, like Thanksgiving, Christmas, Easter.
Was it normal that if you rode with somebody that you paid a share of the gas?
You did.
You paid a share of the gas or gave him some money or something.
Yeah.
Did you ever hitchhike?
Oh, yeah.
Make believe I'd never heard of Aggie hitchhiking.
Tell me about where you caught a ride and how you did it.
Where did you go at the campus?
Where was the proper place to go get a ride to go in north?
You know where university crosses college?
There was a little more or less hitchhiking area there.
And you go up there and
Of course, what we would always do, though we were veterans, we were non-reg and non-core, we would wear military clothes.
And if anybody came along that was going your way, of course that was the time when nobody was afraid to pick up a hitchhiker.
Who got the ride first?
Well, whoever, like if you went up there when there were half a dozen or a dozen people there, you kind of took the line.
But if there were just one or two.
But even after you got away from, sometimes you'd hitchhike into Brian, then you'd have to go out to Highway 6 for us going to Waco and on into Stephenville.
So sometimes you catch three rides or so.
Did you have any bad experience ever Aggie hitchhiking?
No, but I was kind of, I have one experience that I recall, but I never had a bad experience.
One Sunday afternoon, I was going back to College Station.
I went down to highway, what we call the Heiko Highway.
That was 273 or six was what it goes into Heiko.
And then you get on six.
And this fellow stopped.
I hadn't been standing there but a couple minutes.
And so he said, where are you going?
I said, well, I'm going to College Station, but Waco's a good place if you're going anywhere in that direction.
And he said, well, I'm going to Waco.
So I got in the car with him.
Well, I sat down there, and there was a .45 caliber pistol on it, laying by his right hand.
And there was a sawed-off shotgun standing, you know, more or less on the dash, leaned against the dash.
I don't know what in the world I'd gotten into, and I didn't say much.
And he didn't talk very much, and finally we were pulling into Waco, and he said, I guess you want to know who I am.
He said, I work for the state.
So I guess he was a Texas Ranger, although he was not in uniform.
Did you ever, I have not yet heard any description
of a bad experience Aggie hitchhiking.
Did you ever hear of anybody?
Not in those days, I never, no.
And it was, as I mentioned, if anybody had room and they were going your way, you had a ride.
It was not difficult.
And I've heard that you never, never, never tried to break the order.
That if there are 20 people there, you're number 21 and rank doesn't matter.
And I presume being a vet student didn't get you any advance rating?
No, there was no one.
It was an orderly thing.
Of course, veterans were used to that.
They'd spent their years in line.
A line was just how you operated.
Let's see.
Back to classroom.
How did you and your classmates, what were the expected unwritten rules of classroom conduct?
How did you address a faculty member, for example?
Oh, you always said Dr. Miller for doctors.
Even Dr. Cruz.
Nobody liked him putting it with Dr. Cruz.
Do you remember ever slipping and using a nickname by accident?
I never did.
I know sometimes it would, as I mentioned to you, Dr. Jones, who was so proud of it.
In fact, they called him Head End for the wrong reasons.
But those were... I can tell you a little anecdote about...
the chemistry teacher.
Do you ever remember Dr. Hedges?
Remember Dr. Hedges?
Dr. Hedges, I don't know how or why, but he had a limp.
He walked with a decided limp.
Kind of almost stumbled along.
And he took great pride in the fact that he thought that students did not cheat on him.
They did not.
So we had
one of the final exams and one of the, I guess, chemistry 304 or something like that.
It was a junior level course.
And so that we took, we were sitting there, everybody was handed out the exam papers and we were all working mad like, and I never, you know, I never looked at, I didn't do any gazing around.
I kept my eyes on my paper and I worked.
But there was a boy up just all about three seats for me, and I noticed that he was doing something that was kind of ridiculous.
He had a big old watch, you know.
I don't know what they're called, little pocket watches.
I can't recall the name of him.
And he'd take it, watch it, and look at it, and stick it back in his pocket.
Dr. Hedges watched him for a time, and he came around down in the back of him.
And so, of course, this was the last exam, and he knew we was failing the course anyway.
Well, we didn't know that, but he did.
So toward the end of the period,
He pulled that watch out and Dr. Hedges grabbed it, you know, like that.
He had written on the face of the watch, I fooled you, you old son of a bitch, didn't I?
Did that get read to the class or anything, I hope?
My word got out.
Needless to say, the boy didn't pass the course, but he knew he wasn't going to anyway, so.
Let's see, in those days, did you have trouble finding one of your faculty, one of the instructors?
Did you have trouble finding them outside of class?
Were they available?
They were not available as much as maybe that you would like because they were so busy, had such heavy loads.
Yes, you could always find them if you worked at it.
They'd be in their office certain hours, they'd have office hours or something, but... Did you have the impression they spent the entire day on campus?
Well, I think they did, yes.
Most of the time.
All right, let's see.
Extracurricular activities.
Did the YMCA, did it have events in those days for students?
The what?
YMCA.
Yeah, they did.
They had a little bowling alley.
And they had a few things there, but because they were so inundated with students, very few students took advantage of it.
Of course, we had the theater, the movie, the old movie there that they just refurbished a few years before we left there.
You're talking about Guy and Hall?
The what?
Are you talking about on campus?
It's just across... Oh, the old campus theater.
Yeah, I guess so, yeah.
Now, if you and your buddies on campus wanted a break between class, where did you get a refreshment or coffee or a Coke or... In the fall of 45 or so, I don't know that I can remember there being any place.
Let's see, did the typical veteran smoke?
Some did.
Some did, yeah.
How would you compare the percentage then and now, as far as you know?
I think there's a lot less smoke now.
Men in that age category, I don't think they— Smoking was not really— no one really realized the danger then.
I smoked just a little bit early in my military years.
I recall one year, I'd only smoke if we went on pass or something.
I remember just thinking, well, what am I doing this for?
I don't get anything out of it.
Well, I never learned to inhale it.
So I never really did get anything out of it.
That was the last of my smoking.
Did you and your friends know about any other items to smoke other than tobacco?
No, at that time, as far as I know, tobacco was out there.
I had never heard about marijuana for years.
Had you ever even heard the word cocaine?
Yeah, we studied cocaine in pharmacology.
Oh, sure, sure.
But I never knew anything about anybody smoking the stuff or sniffing it or...
taken by the interjection or anything.
And heroin, didn't they?
Yeah, we knew about heroin, but it was not on campus.
I seriously doubt it was on campus.
There were various events in Guyon Hall, movies and chapel.
Did vet students go to any of those?
In a limited way, yes, they did.
Did you go to any religious activities on Sunday?
Yes, I went to church quite a little bit.
Went to the Baptist church there on just at the North Gate.
I still remember the minister, Dr. Brown.
He wasn't very popular with veterans.
Why not?
Oh, he gave a very cold and kind of a fire and brimstone sermon and
And it was very old Baptist kind of thing, you know.
And he didn't have any humor.
He was short of charisma.
I remember I never did get turned on by him much.
All right, that first fall, did you go to any football games?
Yeah.
What were they like?
Describe an Aggie football game to a youngster that had never seen one before.
Well, I guess, think about it, I guess probably the first football, no, I'd seen football in high school.
But you hadn't seen an Aggie game?
No, no, no, no, no, I'd never seen an Aggie game.
Describe what the impression it made on you.
Well, quite a bit.
I had a little trouble understanding why we were supposed to stand up old game.
And, of course, I didn't get as carried away with all of the cheerleading and the football.
yellow-laden in the folder all as much as some, but I enjoyed them and we didn't have a very good team.
We had what everybody thought was going to be a good team.
It was the Kitty Corps.
You remember the Kitty Corps?
Well, it turned out that the Kitty Corps, some of them were still carrying German shrapnel around in their legs and they couldn't run as fast as they had in 1943.
So we didn't get off to a good start.
And, of course, we had Coach Norton, Homer Norton.
And Homer had been a good one.
Of course, he's the only one for years that ever coached the national champions.
But he couldn't get used to what was happening to his team either.
The veterans, it must have been hard for the mature man to deal with them.
I understand that one of the things to his credit, my source for this is Barney Welch, that he promised one-on-one every member of his teams who went away to the service, when you come back, you will have a scholarship.
And Barney had the opinion that when they came back,
many of them were not as good athletes as he could have gotten, but that he said to his knowledge, Coach Norton kept every one of those promises.
I didn't know that, but I'm not surprised.
I didn't know you knew Barney.
Oh yes, oh yes.
And then Jim Cashin told me that he was a quarterback and played as a freshman and then went away
to the war and came back, and that he wasn't very good either, he said, when he came back.
Let's see.
Excuse me, do you know if Barney's still living?
Barney Welch?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
He's still living?
I interviewed him about three months ago.
Oh, doing well.
If you see him, give him my regards.
Oh, I will.
I will.
All right, let's see.
Back to a football game.
I'm sorry.
Was there a, in those days, did the band march in?
I believe so.
Was it?
Yeah, pretty much in a small way.
And was the halftime by the band?
Most of the time, yeah.
That hadn't changed.
Okay.
I don't believe.
Was there a midnight yell practice?
Yeah.
We went sometimes.
Okay.
What other traditional events do you remember?
One of the most meaningful things I can remember were the ceremonies that they'd have for our deceased Aggies.
Silver Taps.
Silver Taps, yeah.
And although you were not a lifetime undergraduate Aggie, you went to that?
Oh, yeah.
Did your buddies go?
Most of them.
We were not core Aggies, but very definitely Aggies, you know.
just didn't have that core orientation.
How long was it before you began to feel a real pride in being at that school?
In being what?
Being at that institution.
Was it weeks, months?
I think I felt a degree of pride in being able to be admitted to A&M and going there.
These other traditional activities
Do you remember a bonfire the first year?
Was there a bonfire?
Yeah, but it didn't used to be what it is.
Now, they'd go down on the highway somewhere and pick up some old scrap lumber and bring it up, and they always could find somewhere, and there were a few outhouses then to put on the top of it.
And the bonfire we had in 45 and 46,
They weren't very big fires.
And it was held on the drill field?
Yeah, they were.
Yeah, I think they were on the drill field at that time.
I believe that's right.
Do you remember going to a muster?
Where was it held?
Because the MSC wasn't finished yet.
Was it on the Y?
I guess in the Y or that Guyon Hall or somewhere.
But I can remember.
I don't know that I went in 46.
Maybe it was 47 before I went to one.
I don't recall for sure.
Here's a question that I asked to some of the others.
Were there any off-campus events that you remember where you were when
and I mentioned Pearl Harbor and so forth.